batch-enablement/arcvmware-batch-enablement.md, before:

# VMware Batch Enablement Script

This PowerShell script, [`arcvmware-batch-enablement.ps1`](./arcvmware-batch-enablement.ps1), is designed to enable Virtual Machines (VMs) in a vCenter in batch. It's particularly useful for large-scale operations where you need to manage hundreds or thousands of VMs.

## Features

- Creates a log file (`vmware-batch.log`) for tracking the script's operation.
- Generates a list of Azure portal links to all deployments created (`all-deployments-<timestamp>.txt`).
- Creates ARM deployment files (`vmw-dep-<timestamp>-<batch>.json`).
- Can enable up to 200 VMs in a single ARM deployment if guest management is enabled, else 400 VMs.
- Supports running as a cron job to enable all VMs in a vCenter.
- Allows for service principal authentication to Azure for automation.

## Prerequisites

Before running this script, please install:

- Azure CLI: Install it from [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli).
- The `connectedvmware` extension for Azure CLI: Install it by running `az extension add --name connectedvmware`.

## Usage

1. Download the script to your local machine.
2. Open a PowerShell terminal and navigate to the directory containing the script.
3. Run the script with the required parameters. For example:

```powershell
.\arcvmware-batch-enablement.ps1 -VCenterId "<vCenterId>" -EnableGuestManagement -VMCountPerDeployment 3 -DryRun
```

Replace `<vCenterId>` with the ARM ID of your vCenter.

## Parameters

- `VCenterId`: The ARM ID of the vCenter where the VMs are located.
- `EnableGuestManagement`: If this switch is specified, the script will enable guest management on the VMs.
- `VMCredential`: The credentials to be used for enabling guest management on the VMs. If not specified, the script will prompt for the credentials.
- `Execute`: If this switch is specified, the script will deploy the created ARM templates. If not specified, the script will only create the ARM templates and provide the summary.

## Running as a Cron Job

You can set up this script to run as a cron job using the Windows Task Scheduler. Here's a sample script to create a scheduled task:

```powershell
$action = New-ScheduledTaskAction -Execute 'powershell.exe' -Argument '-File "C:\Path\To\vmware-batch-enable.ps1" -VCenterId "<vCenterId>" -EnableGuestManagement -VMCountPerDeployment 3 -DryRun'
$trigger = New-ScheduledTaskTrigger -Daily -At 3am
Register-ScheduledTask -Action $action -Trigger $trigger -TaskName "EnableVMs"
```

Replace `<vCenterId>` with the ARM ID of your vCenter.

To unregister the task, run the following command:

```powershell
Unregister-ScheduledTask -TaskName "EnableVMs"
```

## Support

If you encounter any issues or have any questions about this script, please open an issue in this repository.

## License

This script is provided under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for details.

Commit message:

use template file for credentials

batch-enablement/arcvmware-batch-enablement.md, after:

# VMware Batch Enablement Script

This PowerShell script, [`arcvmware-batch-enablement.ps1`](./arcvmware-batch-enablement.ps1), is designed to enable Virtual Machines (VMs) in a vCenter in batch. It's particularly useful for large-scale operations where you need to manage hundreds or thousands of VMs.

# Important

> [!IMPORTANT]
> When guest management is enabled, the script saves your guest VM credential in a file `.do-not-reveal-guestvm-credential.json` in the same directory where the script is present.
> Please ensure that you delete this file after the script has completed its execution.
> The ARM template uses this file as the parameter to enable guest management on the VMs.

## Features

- Creates a log file (`vmware-batch.log`) for tracking the script's operation.
- Generates a list of Azure portal links to all deployments created (`all-deployments-<timestamp>.txt`).
- Creates ARM deployment files (`vmw-dep-<timestamp>-<batch>.json`).
- Can enable up to 200 VMs in a single ARM deployment if guest management is enabled, else 400 VMs.
- Supports running as a cron job to enable all VMs in a vCenter.
- Allows for service principal authentication to Azure for automation.

## Prerequisites

Before running this script, please install:

- Azure CLI: Install it from [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli).
- The `connectedvmware` extension for Azure CLI: Install it by running `az extension add --name connectedvmware`.

## Usage

1. Download the script to your local machine.
2. Open a PowerShell terminal and navigate to the directory containing the script.
3. Run the script with the required parameters. For example:

```powershell
.\arcvmware-batch-enablement.ps1 -VCenterId "<vCenterId>" -EnableGuestManagement -VMCountPerDeployment 3 -DryRun
```

Replace `<vCenterId>` with the ARM ID of your vCenter.

## Parameters

- `VCenterId`: The ARM ID of the vCenter where the VMs are located.
- `EnableGuestManagement`: If this switch is specified, the script will enable guest management on the VMs.
- `VMCredential`: The credentials to be used for enabling guest management on the VMs. If not specified, the script will prompt for the credentials.
- `Execute`: If this switch is specified, the script will deploy the created ARM templates. If not specified, the script will only create the ARM templates and provide the summary.

## Running as a Cron Job

You can set up this script to run as a cron job using the Windows Task Scheduler. Here's a sample script to create a scheduled task:

```powershell
$action = New-ScheduledTaskAction -Execute 'powershell.exe' -Argument '-File "C:\Path\To\vmware-batch-enable.ps1" -VCenterId "<vCenterId>" -EnableGuestManagement -VMCountPerDeployment 3 -DryRun'
$trigger = New-ScheduledTaskTrigger -Daily -At 3am
Register-ScheduledTask -Action $action -Trigger $trigger -TaskName "EnableVMs"
```

Replace `<vCenterId>` with the ARM ID of your vCenter.

To unregister the task, run the following command:

```powershell
Unregister-ScheduledTask -TaskName "EnableVMs"
```

## Support

If you encounter any issues or have any questions about this script, please open an issue in this repository.

## License

This script is provided under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for details.
